pract2 - 
Q)What’s Node-RED?
Node-RED is a powerful open source tool for building Internet of Things (IoT) applications with
the goal of simplifying the programming component.
Practical of Architecting Of IoT
Asst. Prof. Rashmi Pote G. N. Khalsa College
It uses a visual programming that allows you to connect code blocks, known as nodes, together
to perform a task.
The nodes when wired together are called flows.
Q)Why do I think Node-RED is a great solution?
Node-RED is open source and developed by IBM.
The Raspberry Pi runs Node-RED perfectly.
With Node-RED you can spend more time making cool stuff, rather than spending countless
hours writing code.
Don’t get me wrong. I love programming and there is code that needs to be written throughout
this course, but Node-RED allows you to prototype a complex home automation system quickly.
What can you do with Node-RED?
Node-RED makes it easy to:
 Access your RPi GPIOs
 Establish an MQTT connection with other boards (Arduino, ESP8266, etc)
 Create a responsive graphical user interface for your projects
 Communicate with third-party services (IFTTT.com, Adafruit.io, Thing Speak, etc)
 Retrieve data from the web (weather forecast, stock prices, emails. etc)
 Create time triggered events
 Store and retrieve data from a database
Here’s a library with some examples of flows and nodes for Node-RED.
Q) Installing Node-RED
Note: Node red usually comes preinstalled with Raspbian!!
Getting Node-RED installed in your Raspberry Pi is quick and easy. It just takes a few
commands.
Having an SSH connection established with your Raspberry Pi, enter the following commands to
install Node-RED:
pi@raspberry:~ $ bash <(curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nodered/raspbian-deb-package/master/resources/update-nodejs-and-nodered)
The installation should be completed after a couple of minutes.
Autostart Node-RED on boot
imp)) To automatically run Node-RED when the Pi boots up, you need to enter the following
command:
pi@raspberry:~ $ sudo systemctl enable nodered.service
Now, restart your Pi so the autostart takes effect:
pi@raspberry:~ $ sudo reboot
Testing the Installation
When your Pi is back on, you can test the installation by entering the IP address of your Pi in a
web browser followed by the 1880 port number:
http://YOUR_RPi_IP_ADDRESS:1880
In my case is:
http://192.168.1.98:1880
A page like this loads:
Node-RED overview
Let’s take a look at the Node-RED visual interface.
Main sections

On the left-side, you can see a list with a bunch of blocks. These blocks are called nodes and
they are separated by their functionality. If you select a node, you can see how it works in
the info tab.
In the center, you have the Flow and this is where you place the nodes.
Creating a simple flow
Let’s test a simple example of a flow. ||Start by dragging an Inject node to your flow. Then, also
drag a Debug node.||
Connect your nodes together. You can drag them to confirm that they are connected.
Now, let’s edit the inject node. Double-click the node. In the figure below you can see different
settings you can change.
Select string and type Hello!.
Practical of Architecting Of IoT

To save your application, you need to click the deploy button on the top right corner.
Your application is saved.
Testing the flow
Let’s test our simple flow. Open the debug window and click the Inject node to trigger the
“Hello!” string.

